# Non-Composite Types

## Enumerated Data Type

An enumerated data type contains no references to other data types when it is defined.

Enumerated data types, also known as enums, are a way to define a specific set of values that a variable can hold. It's like having a predefined list of options to choose from. Think of it as a menu in a restaurant. The menu lists different dishes you can order. Each dish has a unique name and description. In programming, an enumerated data type works similarly. It defines a list of named values, and a variable of that type can only be assigned one of those specific values.

In pseudocode the type definition would look like this:

`TYPE <IDENTIFIER> = (val1, val2, val3, ... )`

For example, let's say we want to represent the days of the week in a program. We can define an enumerated data type called "DaysOfWeek" with the following options: Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. 

```pseudocode
TYPE DaysOfWeek = (Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday)
```

Now, if we declare a variable of type "DaysOfWeek", we can only assign it one of those specific values.

```pseudocode
DECLARE today : DaysOfWeek
today <- Monday
```

Here is the python:

```python
import enum
class DaysOfWeek(enum.Enum):
    MONDAY = 1
    TUESDAY = 2
    WEDNESDAY = 3
    THURSDAY = 4
    FRIDAY = 5
    SATURDAY = 6
    SUNDAY = 7

day = DaysOfWeek.MONDAY
```

Enums are useful because they provide clarity and restrict the range of possible values a variable can have. They make code more readable and help avoid errors by ensuring that variables are assigned valid values from a predefined set.

---

## Pointers

A pointer data type is like a special kind of variable that stores the memory address of another value. It's like having a signpost that points to a specific location in computer memory. To work correctly, the pointer data type needs to know the type of data it will be pointing to. In pseudocode, the type definition for a pointer has a specific structure. It uses a "^" symbol to indicate that it's a pointer, and `<Typename>` represents the type of data that will be found at that memory location. For example, it could be an `INTEGER`, `REAL`, or any other type of data, including user-defined types.`

```pseudocode
TYPE <pointer> = ^<Typename>   
# Tmonth is the data type in the memory location that this pointer can be used to point to
```

A pointer for the days of the week could be defined as follows:

```pseudocode
TYPE TDayPointer = ^DaysOfWeek
DECLARE dayPointer : TDayPointer

dayPointer <- ^day
```

If the contents of the memory location are required rather than the address of the memory location, then the pointer can be dereferenced. For example, `myDay` can be set to the value stored at the address `dayPointer` is pointing to:

```pseudocode
DECLARE myDay : DaysOfWeek
myDay  <- dayPointer^
```

## Activity:

Using pseudocode for the enumerated data type for months of the year, declare a suitable pointer to use. Set your pointer to point at the current month. Remember, you will need to set up the pointer data type and the pointer variable.
